now go and I do the pencils and this is
where you define the form and you're
getting ready for the inks for the
inking stage this is the moment where I
define what my lines will be for the ink
stage that makes sense this is a stage
where I'm just doing you know what this
is like this is like where I'm chipping
away if I were a sculptor I'm done
making the basic building block shapes
and now I'm getting those little details
just right like they the shape of the
ear
this guy's got glasses I had little
details like their hair give them a
little funny cap round nose mustache
he's a mustachioed man
he's got a little bit of a hunch I want
to emphasize that hunch a little more
give some of the wrinkles and the
clothing in there give it a more natural
feel
so wearing his tie here's the character
poking her head out I did see I didn't
draw her bun on the right side buns
more in the middle
I'll have to get a little more detailed
with the buildings I forget that France
they don't have windows like we have in
the United States the reference I did
showed me that their windows are
different than ours oh and here's what
I've forgotten I've forgotten the nice
little detail of the perspective this
little line this is a line this is the
line give the depth give some depth to
this this lamp a lot of people say
cartoons are just frustrated filmmakers
and that's true to the degree that you
want to create your own beautiful world
and you can do it all yourself with
people handed paper you can do with a
tire you can create an entire world with
with just a pen and a piece of paper and
I've done my research so I know how
horses roughly how horses look at that
point you have to start showing it to
other people because you can't exist in
a vacuum and you have to know if it's
bad or good or readable I should say
I've always wanted to work within it I
think when it was a great idea men and
we also edit each other pretty well to
enfranchise comics you have editors that
have to approve so I'm used to having
you know the stage it's a very stage of
comics making be approved and greenlit
as it were but when you're making your
own stuff it's kind of like you are your
own authority uh but you know you have
to I think it's smart to show off to a
couple people not everybody because you
know the whole too many cooks spoil soup
everybody can have an opinion about how
you can make something better there are
about two or three people that I trust
one being Nippert ozium when it being
Josh Neufeld don't worry about your
style don't worry about the way you draw
don't worry about if you draw good or if
you draw up bad
I don't care about that I just want to
see if you can tell a clear story
because that's what comics are you can
tell stories with stick things but those
stick figures better be something doing
some damn interesting stuff
the correction is now is the time to do
it before I go to inks just keep erasing
to make sure I'd have the right just the
red shot make sure it's clear clear
clear always going to be easy people to
read